Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the and and the or logical operators in XlV A.
So the end and the or logical operators in XlV be a work exactly the same as the end and
the or functions in Excel in that only excel grid.
So as we know,
the and function will take some logical tests.
And if all the logical tests are true,
then it will you the true.
And if any of the logical tests is false,
then it will yield a false.
That's what the ad in function does.
And that's what the end logical operator in Excel VB a does and the or function in Excel
takes some logical tests.
And if any of the logical tests is true,
then he will yield a true and actually,
if all of them are false and this is the only case it would yield the false.
Then it's going to yield a false.
So if graded,
a simple macro here called and or and,
as you can see,
are,
um,
applying logical tests on Selby 21 that's colored in orange year.
And as you can see here,
the first test year.
The first,
if condition,
says,
if the value of Selby 21 is greater than or equal to one,
and its value is less than or equal to five.
So this is a condition,
and this is a condition,
and there is an and logical operator here.
So basically,
in order for this whole,
if condition to yield,
a true this needs to be true.
And this part is,
well needs to be true.
And they will actually be true in our case here,
because Selby,
21 has a value of three,
which is greater than or equal to one,
and at the same time it's less than or equal to five.
So that means that if we execute this macro uber pressing F eight owner keyboard,
this if will yield a true and we're going to see this message boxes says between one and
five.
You can also add more than two logical tests for the and here,
so we can actually add to be 21.
Value does not equal to two,
for example,
so if range B 20 wonder values greater than or equal to one,
and it's less than or equal to five and at the same time as well is not equal to two.
So all these logical tests are going to yield a true So that means that the whole if will
be a true and we're going to get this message box.
However,
if any of these logical tests is false than the whole,
if will be false.
Okay?
Because in case of the end,
all the logical tests need to be true in order for the logical tests to be true.
So,
for example,
if we change this to be greater than or equal to 10 for example so when this logical test
is done,
this is going to feel the full,
so the whole if will be false.
So it's trying out here.
As you can see here,
it's gonna bypass it because it's shielded the false,
and this one also will you the false where the or one and we will speak about that shortly
.
But as you can see here for the end,
all the logical just needs to be true.
In order to yield a true and if any of them yields the force than all the logical s will be
false.
Now we're going to speak about the or logical operator.
So here we've got the second line of code here has an or logical operators.
It says else if range B 20 wonder value is equal to 10 or it is equal to 20.
If we make this a 10 than the fact that this will be true will make the whole else if true
as well.
Okay,
So in case of the or if any of the conditions you're testing is true,
then the whole logical test will be true.
Okay,
So if we run this macro because here we're gonna actually execute the message box for that
one because the else if will be true and that is because one of them is true.
Now,
the only case that this else if in this form will be false is that if both are actually
fall So if we change the value year to 11 and we're on the macro,
it will actually yield fools.
And the message box 10 or 20 will not be executed because the values neither equal to 10
nor equal to 20 as you can see her,
you can also mix between the or and the end in that case,
Actually,
it is preferable that you would put brackets for both readability and also for excel Toe.
Be able to understand what you want to do.
So,
for example,
if I write range B 21 value is equal to 10 or beat one to wonder values equal to 20 and B
21 is less than 30 and we change this actually to 10.
So in that case,
actually,
this will yield a true this whole thing,
will you?
The truth And this whole thing also will you two True,
Because the value is equal to 10 or equal to 22 this part will yield a true,
and the value is also less than 30.
And in that case,
actually,
this whole bunch,
which is too logical tests with an or logical is treated as as one logical test.
And this is treated.
There's another logical test,
and they're both being tested with an end logical operator.
So in this case,
it will actually yield the true.
And we'll have this message box 10 or 20 pop up.
So let's run the macro here.
Step by step.
You can see here They got the message box 10 or 20 popped up.
So if you're gonna mix between the end and the or it is preferable and highly advisable,
it's a good practice to put your tests between brackets for both readability and also to be
able to convey the message or what you need to do to XlV.
Be a correctly so to be able to convey your message correctly.
Okay,
so I hope that was informative for you guys.
I hope he understood the difference between the end and the or logical operators were going
to use them quite a lot on the course.
Okay,
so thank you very much watching this video and we'll see on the next one.